---
title: The importance of soft skills in recruitment and corporate culture
categories:
- Tendances
- Bonnes Pratiques
image: "/uploads/gettyimages-1250462981.jpg"
permalink: "/the-importance-of-softskills/"
meta:
  author: Barthelemy
  time: 15mn
  excerpt: Najoua Chahboune has +8 years of experience in recruitment (Private Driver,
    Algolia...). She is currently a Senior Technical Recruiter at Datadog, a SaaS
    monitoring and security platform.

---
Najoua Chahboune has +8 years of experience in recruitment (Private Driver, Algolia...). She is currently a Senior Technical Recruiter at [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/lpg/?utm_source=Advertisement&utm_medium=GoogleAdsNon1stTier&utm_campaign=GoogleAdsNon1stTier-BrandCV&utm_content=Brand&utm_keyword=%2Bdatadog&utm_matchtype=b&gclid=CjwKCAjwmv-DBhAMEiwA7xYrd751Uo6UFt7GzVCy0gyIrtzFpJwlHqyXFt_elLMiek0HxIrY9sn2shoCEwYQAvD_BwE), a SaaS monitoring and security platform.

* How important are soft skills in the recruitment of new employees?

Datadog's goal is to offer complete monitoring by breaking down the silos between devs, ops, and security.

As our engineering team is distributed (Paris, NY, remote), soft skills play a key role because communication must be fluid and precise.

The importance is such that we have not always been able to make offers to highly technical profiles because of their soft skills. Bad recruitment can be harmful to one or more teams.

Of course, these people must be technically competent, since their day-to-day work will consist of doing technical work. However, at Datadog a Software Engineer's job does not stop at pure technique. I

ndeed, Software Engineers are expected to be able to share their knowledge and expertise with other members of their teams, explain their reasoning when technical choices have to be made but also be able to interact with non-technical people to explain their role and the products they work on.

* **What are the 3 most important soft skills in your opinion?**

When we recruit new employees, the main soft skills we will be looking for are the following:

* Humility
* Communication
* Benevolence
* **How do you measure the adequacy between your company's culture and the soft skills of the candidates?**

Several elements allow us to measure the adequacy between our corporate culture and the soft skills of the candidates.

To begin with, we measure the expectations of the candidates concerning: the position they are looking for, the new team they will be joining, the working environment in which they wish to evolve. With these elements, we already have a first idea of the aspirations of the candidates and this allows us to know if, given our corporate culture, we can offer a work environment that corresponds to their expectations.

Then during the various interviews that the candidates go through as part of the recruitment process, in addition to testing technical skills, the interviewers are also in charge of evaluating several soft skills during the different stages. The four that represent us the most and that we will be looking for in our employees will be enthusiasm (for what we do at Datadog), humility (both towards our users and our competitors, but also our peers in the company), open-mindedness, and finally precision (in the answers given to the questions asked).

Finally, a one-hour interview with a Hiring Manager is dedicated to cultural and team fit.

* **How do you evaluate the soft skills of candidates (interviews - role play - personality test)?**

We're not very adept at personality testing or role-playing at Datadog. Indeed, they are not necessarily representative of the way candidates collaborate daily in a company and it is quite easy to choose the answers to the questions asked according to what will be expected for the position in question.

We, therefore, evaluate soft skills in two ways: via questions asked during the interviews, but also during the technically oriented interviews, where we propose a live coding exercise and where soft skills such as communication are evaluated.

## → **Do you take the reference to identify the soft skills of the candidates?**

Taking references is not something that is part of Datadog's recruitment policy. We may do it for particular positions (positions with high responsibilities for example) but it is not systematic.

The references can be valuable, but if the work context, the contours of the position, the culture of the companies we carry them out with are too different from our context, then they will not be representative.

For example, if we want to know more about a person's ability to share feedback (positive or negative) but we do this reference check with a company that does not allow for feedback, the feedback will not be relevant.