---
title: 'Refty’s benefits for our clients :'
categories:
- Tous
- Bonnes Pratiques
- post2
- article
- text
image: "/uploads/playa-lr.jpg"
layout: article
permalink: "/refty-s-benefices-for-our-clients/"
meta:
  author: Barthélémy
  time: 40 min
  excerpt: Normalize/structure by simplifying a step in the recruitment process  Instead,
    they systematically take references from all the candidates they recruit.

---
## **Normalize/structure by simplifying a step in the recruitment process**

Instead, they systematically take references from all the candidates they recruit.

Also, these companies can be sure that they will:

avoid discriminating, personal or irrelevant questions,

to remain compliant with the [RGPD](https://www.cnil.fr/fr/reglement-europeen-protection-donnees) rules in force.

All they have to do is add the candidate's contact information and the number of references required, and Refty takes care of the rest!

* **Save time**

Before Refty, taking references was a manual, tedious and repetitive process that could take a recruiting team several days to complete.

With Refty, automated reference checking launches in seconds, with the result delivered in reports generated within hours.

→ Refty customers reduce the time spent on reference taking by more than 50%.

* **Improve the candidate experience and therefore the employer brand**

For the first time, candidates in the process with a Refty client company are notified when one of their references is contacted.

They are also notified when they respond to our reference questionnaire.

By providing more visibility to the candidate, we improve the candidate's perception of the recruitment process. We thus contribute to the overall improvement of our client’s employer brand.

* **Reduce bias, make more objective decisions and recruit better**

The steps in your recruitment process give you a snapshot of the candidate at a given moment.

Refty completes this analysis by providing you with objective information based on the candidate's entire career.

Refty questionnaires have been validated by psychometric experts to ensure that the questions asked avoid bias:

_How?_

By standardizing the reference checking process, candidates and referees answer the same questions without human interference.

The same is true for recruiters within client companies:

By delegating the reference check to Refty, they avoid biasing the questions they would ask the referees.

* **Build a new talent pool organically**

Once referrers have completed the referral questionnaires, they have the opportunity to express their interest in open positions at client companies.

This allows them to become potential active candidates.

On average, 20% of referrers express interest in joining our client’s companies.

This allows Refty's clients to realize significant savings on the costliest part of the hiring process: the search for candidates.

* **Improve onboarding of new hires**

Refty reports provide a roadmap for each prospective employee to reach their peak performance.  
  
These reports identify the behaviors and characteristics of new hires:

* the management styles they will thrive in
* the types of projects in which they will outperform
* the weaknesses that future managers will have to deal with.

Want to try the benefits of using Refty in your company?